Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and
gentlemen; now today I wanted to talk
about a film that I feel like a lot of
people got right but not all of it and I
wanted to clear up any misconceptions
that you or other people might have
about it and I have to give thanks to
users
Quaker Joy, Kate Kim, TN and Blackout
for the points made throughout
this video and the topics of today's
video are gonna be about the Japanese
stranger –the old man–, Moo-Myeong
the mushrooms, the deleted ending as well as Il-Gwang, and the photos but first here's a very
brief and very quick summary of
The Wailing (2016)
So there's a Japanese man who has recently arrived to
this quite little Korean town in the mountains, living by
his lonesome in the woods but since he's
arrived things have gotten weird
a terrible and mysterious illness is
spreading throughout the town infecting
townspeople with a rash and a terrifying
urge to kill ending fatally for both
the victims and the murderer
We followed Jong-Goo, a loving if
indifferent father and police officer
investigating these murders and in in his investigation he
encounters a strange woman in white named Moo-Myeong
Who directs him to investigate the Japanese stranger
who haunts Jong-Goo's dreams...
however during the course of his investigation.
Several things happen
For one, Jong-Goo finds evidence that the Japanese guy is a killer;
finding photographs of the murdered
victims–they find photographic evidence
that points towards the Japanese guy
being a killer and secondly Jong-Goo's
daughter Hyo-Jin becomes possessed by an evil spirit
so Jong-Goo hires a lavishly dressed
exorcist named Il-Gwang to exorcise her
which doesn't go well and it's then
later that Jong-Goo and his friends have a
terrifying encounter with an
honest-to-god zombie and they end up
killing the Japanese man believing him
to be the cause of the curse and it's
only later that Il-Gwang convinces Jong-Goo
that no, it's not the Japanese man that's
the cause of this it's in fact the woman
in white: Moo-Myeong
and Il-Gwang himself actually runs into Moo-Myeong
and has a terrifying encounter vomiting up copious
amounts of blood and flees the town only
to return when he's terrorized by a
swarm of locusts and ultimately, the film ends with us finding
out that Moo-Myeong and the Japanese guy
are some sort of supernatural entity
with Moo-Myeong being a "good guy" and the
Japanese guy being the Devil
So by the end of the film it's heavily implied
that the old man is now a demon or the
Devil himself however earlier in the
film it's actually the demon or the
devil who is possessing the body of the
Japanese stranger however every so often
the demon either relinquishes control or
the Japanese guy's spirit actively
fights for control over his own body
which allows the Japanese man to perform
that ritual which is meant to drive the
demon from his body into the body of Mr. Park.
the cadaver in the photo and
Moo-myeong's presence helps drive the demon
out of his body as well allowing this
Japanese stranger to reclaim total
control over his body which is why he
acts so differently after being chased
after that whole scene (The ritual).
He's no longer possessed by the demon
however he dies sometime after falling
onto the truck and being pushed off the
highway by Jong-Goo allowing the demon or
the Devil to fully possess the body of
the Japanese stranger and we see its
true form at the end of the movie as the
priest – a character I didn't mention in the
summary – fully acknowledges and believes
in the supernatural status of the
creature which brings me to a few othe points
Moo-myeong and belief
Now this movie combines aspects of Christianity
and Korean shamanism, all of it embodied
in Moo-Myeong who I'm pretty sure is some
sort of land God or local guardian
spirit of the town meant to protect it
and in fact some of her actions actually
references the Bible
she throws stones at Jong-Goo
which is a reference to John Chapter 8 Verse 7
"He who is without sin, may cast he first stone"
referring to Jong-Goo as a pure man who
doesn't easily give in to sinful desire
having no sex drive, not eating a lot, working 'hard enough', and not being lazy
as well as being willing to spend a lot
of money for the sake of his daughter
she also references the rooster crowing 3 times,
which is a reference to John Chapter 18
where Peter denies knowing Jesus three
times which heralds the crucifixion of
Christ but in the movie this manifests
itself as Jong-Goo refusing to believe
Moo-Myeong spiel about trapping the demon
and this ends up getting him killed by
Hyo-Jin now possessed by another demon (spirit)
implying that Moo-Myeong's powers work on
faith and that if you have faith and you
believe you will and can be protected
but if you were to ever waver in your
faith and sin, bad things will happen to
you and depending on what you believe in
bad things will happen to you as the
priest finds out the end of the movie
when he confronts the devil
Now  something that is mentioned earlier in
the film is that there are these
mushrooms that were consumed by the
victims of the mysterious disease with
the mushrooms contributing symptoms of
paranoia, rashes, and murderous intent
leading to a misconception that the
movie's plot was kick-started by a case
of fungal infections in other words
there's a theory that this movie is just
a hallucination by Jong-Goo and I wish to
debunk this and I will admit there are
several scenes where the people in the village
do eat something that might have
been contaminated by the mushrooms and
although it would explain a lot of the
weird things that happen in this film
and Jong-Goo's sudden change in demeanor
as a result of hallucinations or a
fever dream on Jong-Goo's part but it
doesn't adequately explain very
supernatural aspects of this film it
doesn't explain how an ostensibly dead
Japanese man comes back to life nor does
explain how lightning comes out of
nowhere to strike some random guy in the
middle of the woods nor does
it explain how there are locusts
of a highway or the fact that the protective
garland–that charm that Moo-Myeong
hangs over Jong-Goo's gate ends up
rotting as soon as Jong-Goo crosses the
threshold and the cherry on top is that
there was a deleted ending that depicts
Il-Gwang and the Japanese stranger
getting into a car and driving off with
Moo-Myeong looking on clearly distraught
more or less confirming my suspicions
that she's in fact a land God who's
restricted to protecting those in her
territory which is why she can't chase after Il-Gwang and the demon
So Il-Gwang is the exorcist that
was hired to expel the spirit
possessing Hyo-Jin, Jong-Hoo's daughter
however Il-Gwang isn't as benevolent as he seems
Yes! He might be a good shaman, in fact
Jong-Goo paid top dollar for his services
Il-Gwang isn't a "good" shaman
If you catch my drift
because throughout the movie we
see him do things that aren't so
befitting of someone of his station: he
swears and he wears extravagant clothing
even though he prays to Buddha and some
the tenants of traditional Buddhism is
to not be extravagant, be a civil
person (don't swear) and do not kill
living things but what do we see we see
him wear brand-name clothing, we see him
get paid an exorbitant amount of money
to do the ritual and he swears and of
course he kills a chicken to do his
ritual hinting at his less than holy
nature but there are hints that he's
aligned with the Japanese shaman / demon
he wears a very familiar fundoshi, the
underwear that he Japanese man wears the
throughout the film and then later he
changes into darker clothing after the
ritual hinting at his two-faced nature
and he even violently vomits a blood
when he's near the "holy" Moo-Myeong, getting
rid of his impurity so to speak and he
tries to run away but he's frightened
back into helping the demon after the
demon sends a horde of locusts after
his car
So the kicker is that at the end of the film, we see Il-Gwang gather a set of photos
that the Japanese man claimed to have burned; photos of the dead victims
which are gathered up and put
back into the trunk of his car before driving off
Why do these photos matter?
Well, for 1) they're a major source of
evidence that points towards the
Japanese man being the cause of the murders and
mysterious deaths around the village but
there's an old belief in some cultures
and that cameras are able to capture
your soul in their photographs thus
these photos are either the physical
representation or a manifestation of the
captured souls that were taken by the
demon who has enlisted the help of Il-Gwang in collecting these Souls
this explains why he takes a photo of Jong-Goo
at the end of the film and why he has
all those photos and the purpose of his
ritual: his ritual wasn't to get rid of
the evil spirit possessing Hyo-Jin it
was to get rid of Hyo-Jin's spirit which was
fighting against the ritual as she begs
her father, her "abeoji" (daddy)
a word she hasn't used since she's been possessed
to stop the ritual which although is stopped
ultimately fails to stop the full
possession of Hyo-Jin
With that being said thank you so
much for watching, ladies and gentlemen
if you enjoyed it, leave a like down below
and subscribe to get updated on my latest
uploads and don't forget to have some
faith or else the Devil is gonna kill you